Say it again.
That's one kind of thrill.
I'd say going to the big sale and getting the big item is a great thrill.
But the other sort of, you know, the other kind of triumphs that make you glow when you think about them are to find a treasure that nobody realized was a treasure before.
The find.
And I have these happen all the time.
It's to get a treasure.
Very rare item for almost nothing.
And these, you know, I could go for a week and show you these things that give me such satisfaction.
Of course, once in a while, you make a fool of yourself.
You buy something.
But I strongly believe that.
You pay the law of averages a bit.
Once in a while, I will pay what I know is a little too much for a buck.
but it is counteracted by so many bargains.
Once in a while, I make a mistake, I buy something I wish that I hadn't bought.
But you do that because once in a while you don't have the chance to really check out the item before, and you use hunches through auction purchases or through catalogs.
And by hunches, I would say, have about a
90% batting average, so that other 10%, what the heck.
And the fact of the matter is, as Warren Roberts said, and I think I use it in that piece in the Times, this stuff doesn't lose any value.
You may pay a little more now, but this stuff's only appreciated.
Oh, without any question.
In the long run, you're more like 98%.
Maybe what you overpay for now, you know.
You know, if you would think... I'm going to just use this stuff.
You know, very fine stock, wonderful shop that he ran.
And Ken, at no time while he was in the trade, did you think of him as being inexpensive.
He wasn't wildly overpriced in any way, but he had very nice copies at market price, say.
You would just die if you could take Ken's catalog one now and buy them for five times what the prices were.
In the period that we're talking about, the inflation in the prices is just phenomenal.
And I constantly am finding things on the shelf.
Well, I'll pay sometimes $500 for
a book similar to one that I literally paid $15 for 15 or 20 years ago.
Do you ever go flea marketing and stuff like that?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, constantly.
What I do is I cultivate.
I do that myself to some extent.
But even more than that, because I do get along with the dealers and respect their
their business needs, they like doing business with me.
And I have dealers in a variety of parts of the country who are an extension of my eyes.
And they're going to the flea markets.
They're going to the small dealers.
And if they get anything good,
They always will call me first.
Yeah, but you never know.
There's always that Tamerlane among the agricultural.
I haven't found Tamerlane, but I've found some great treasures.
Mr. Clements, did you ever have a chance to enjoy this?
Oh, yeah.
He was alive for 11 years at the place.
Did he come here often?
He had a regular office, and he would, yes, he was frequently here.
It isn't really a museum, but there are a few treasures here that add a wonderful ambiance.
That is actually Benjamin West's painting of The Death of Wolfe.
He did four of them.
This is one of the four.
Again, every one is slightly different.
This is the largest copy.
That chest is Sir Henry Clinton's uniform chest.
When the Clinton papers were purchased, the papers were shipped to America, Anthony.
Who among us cannot love maps like that?
Aren't they wonderful?
In terms of numbers, how many maps?
Why don't you just run the numbers?
Well, I believe we quote a figure of 30,000 maps.
I don't know whether that was all.
Well, that's fine.
It's both fine.
How about printed books?
Printed books have a better idea.
Hello.
We have approximately 65,000 premium titles in the catalog.
This collection is very,
heavily catalogued.
We don't have a big backlog of uncatalogued material.
So scholars can really find out what we have, and we make a great point of serving scholars, both by mail and phone and here.
You have no problems copying things?
Unlike Texas, for instance?
We freely copy anything that can be copied.
Of course, any scholar that wanted to publish something has to write to us.
But no, we
We have a strong feeling of... These are manuscript collections.
Oh, Louis Cass, who was sent here.
Peter Force, you know, the book collector, who was a mayor of Washington.
Peter Force, F-O-I-C.
Now, what was he?
A distinguished collector?
He was a very... There's a thing called The Force's Trapped.
He republished...
and a thing called American Archives.
Something I should look up, huh?
Peter Forks is somebody that you'd like to know about.
He was a collector.
He was involved in reprinting the very scarce traps.
The first traps are the 16th and 17th century traps on early American settlements and exploration.
And they're very collectible.
He was involved with Henry Stevens I, who started that great firm.
So he's one of the pioneer Americanists.
A contemporary of Brindley, you think?
He was earlier, really, a little earlier.
His period went from the 1820s, say, to the 40s.
Nathaniel Green's papers, you know, that's quantity.
I was at the Kansas Movie of New York Book Fair last Saturday.
You went?
Yes, I went there.
Just for the book fair?
Well, I went there to see a private manuscript collection in upstate New York.
My manuscript curator and I went.
And so this is just the sort of thing we... Oh, so you acquired.
we brought in.
This is a diary of a clergyman.
This is a private purchase?
No, this is from the paper.
And what did you pay for that?
All right.
That was priced at $650.
A couple of travel letters.
I bought this.
Supposedly it belonged to Barbara Fritchie.
I think probably the signature is phony.
But I really bought it because of the imprint.
Harrisonburg.
Harrisonburg, Virginia.
These are on approval.
This is a list of all the people admitted to the lunatic asylum in New Orleans in the 1840s.
which may or may not be worth picking up.
Sort of interesting.
This is a book.
We have fine Civil War stuff, thanks largely to the Mr. Shoes, I mentioned.
And this is a New York regiment, but it lists all the people, their age, their height, their eyesight.
This is very useful stuff.
Yeah, I think the Louisville thing is pretty good.
One day it will be useful to somebody.
I agree with you.
This is Schultz's collection.
Fabulous.
He gave everything.
He gave all of this.
That's James S-H-O-F-S.
James S-H-O-F-S.
S-C-H-O-F-S, but he really was it.
He was superb.
He did, in the last, after he went to Bloomingdale's, he became president of Bloomingdale's in 1944.
Well, Bloomingdale's is right opposite
Dave Kirshenbaum's Carnegie Bookshop.
You know, Dave's one of my subjects.
Good.
Have you talked to him a lot?
Three hours on tape, I've got him.
Oh, I'm real pleased.
You know, I was going to be able to tape him.
I got it.
I got any work before he died.
I had him all set up.
I was going to interview Dave.
You know, I've known him for years.
And it was when Jim died, and Jim was his best friend.
Tell me what?
Can you tell me something about Dave?
Can you tell me something for the record?
Oh, I can tell you lots about Dave.
Oh, yeah, I can talk to you about Dave.
Oh, I know Dave.
I mean, can you tell, how do you judge him as a bookman?
He claims to have attended the wholesale in 1912?
Yes.
I personally have every reason to think he did as a young kid.
And I have attended every major sale in the last three years.
He's at every one.
Oh, of course.
And bidding.
Oh, exactly.
At 97 years old, he's got his cattle in the air.
Well, I can tell you, Dave is a kind of dealer that I hate to see die out.
And it's happening.
And there aren't many of them left.
For one thing, he's a man.
Oh, I could talk to you.
I'm going to have to call you for some close.
I could really talk to you about him.
He's great.
He's, you know, if you ask other dealers or other people, you ask the sort of volume club type people,
I will tell you that Dave, it's jealousy.
It's that Dave does not cultivate them, never has.
Dave is an absolutely loyal person to his
Customers mean he and this is not true of some people in the trade When Dave is in an auction he is representing you And he is not he doesn't play footsie with the trade as much as most dealers do some of us some some people
I think that he may be a little too close to the auction houses, and that may just be a scurrilous kind of... Well, Dave is close to the auction houses.
He's done tremendous favors for some of these.
John Marion just thinks he's the greatest thing.
Well, I know he is.
In fact, it was John Marion, when I interviewed him, who said,
You're missing out if you don't talk to Dave Christian.
Oh, absolutely.
And thankfully, we set it up.
Well, you see, Dave has an oldie.
Do you know the little book by, you know, the little thing on the book?
The Book Dealers of New York, done in about 1922.
It's by, oh, you've got to get it.
I'll think of it.
I'll find it before I leave.
The BRU, I'm just not thinking of the man's name.
It's an Italian name.
He did this little thing on the trade in New York.
No, no, no.
In fact, this is 1921 or two.
He records talking to, going into the Carnegie bookshop, and talking to Mr. Kirshenbaum.
Now, he is really, I believe, talking to Dave's father, and
You know, Dave doesn't say too much about his father, but this guy says his father was an officer in the White Russian Army.
His father was apparently sort of in the, he would buy and sell anything.
What's that?
The word is black market.
Dave grew up in New York.
But the father gives his philosophy of business in this book.
Yes.
And the philosophy of business is you buy something for a certain price, you add, I've forgotten whether it's 10% or 20%, you sell it.
That's all you do.
Dave Kirshenbaum has followed that philosophy of business.
From the first day he got in, he has no other philosophy in the business.
And what he does, he therefore has never lost money on a book.
And if he buys something that's worth $50,000 for $1,000, he sells it for $1,200.
Back when he was active in the putting out manuscript catalogs, you couldn't get to him.
There were so many calls.
He was selling letters that were worth $500 for
120 often.
But he knows his business.
Dave has personally has never collected anything at all, except he very sheepishly will tell you that he got Harry Truman to sign his memoirs when he was out there in Independence.
But Dave doesn't collect.
He's there to represent.
And he's loyal
To people that have been dead for 50 years, he will not betray a confidence.
I can tell you that's absolutely true.
He will not betray a confidence.
The reason that other dealers get annoyed with that is because you get the little friction.
Part of it is that his customers were so loyal to him.
And they were jealous.
And he handled my big customers.
I mean, Bradley Martin came into his office three days a week.
Bradley, yeah.
He sat right where you're sitting right now.
Oh.
And I had my wife with me doing the synthesis.
Oh, absolutely.
And Bradley and they knew each other.
So Dave, you see, when one of these people would die in 1970, I used to go and sit with Dave and Shoaff at the old shop there.
sit around Saturday mornings, and then they had... He still has the shop.
Yeah, but I mean the shop he was in for 50 years, right opposite Bloominguez, there's a great dresser in there.
And you'd sit around in this sort of cavernous place, and the mail would come in.
Somebody would bring it in.
A widow of somebody that he had sold something to in 1938 would send back, in brown paper wrappers, manuscript letters.
Dave would open it up and would show the lay there.
Dave would sort of toss it across the table, and he'd say, that's the interest you have.
He'd just sell it to us right there.
Didn't matter if it was worth a fortune.
He knew what he had in it.
He knew what he paid.
His customers knew how honestly he had treated them.
And Dave also has a sense in the auction room equal to surpassing anyone of when to stop, when to move on.
He's brilliant as a bidder.
And so people like Bradley Martin, people like Dick Gimbel, some of these other people, they just knew with Dave there, they were going to get it at the cheapest price they could get it with the greatest expertise.
Well, for Bradley's Audubon, he looked at one earlier.
He said, Bradley, this is not for you.
You want good condition.
Oh, without any question.
Exactly.
Well, there he is.
Fantastic.
I'm glad that this came up.
He's in a small world, isn't it, this book?
Here are the Gage papers.
These are the Pleasant papers, Lord Shelburne's papers, the Germaine papers.
You know what Bernadette cared for?
Very thoroughly catalogued.
See, they don't have one large reading room.
You have a number of smaller reading rooms.
We have two reading rooms.
And then, you know, this sort of spills over... Who's this old portrait out there?
It looks like... Helen!
It looks like Andrew Jackson in a way.
It's Thomas King.
We don't know who did it.
For a while, it was thought to be trouble, but it is.
Do you think it's a contemporary portrait?
Yeah, I think so.
It was in sort of a traveling circuits or something back in the 19th century.
It was given to us.
This painting, I don't know who it is, but I think it's one of a balanced family who were engravers from Philadelphia.
Lincoln?
My gosh.
Just reference, but I'm... We're in the stacks here.
British Army lists for British military history.
And also for British politics.
And here are...
First commanding officer of the United States Army under Washington.
Melville was a British cabinet official.
Hi.
Rob Cox, our manuscript curator.
Nick Wiseman.
Nice to meet you.
You know, you get these calls all the time.
The Declaration, of course, every single one of those give away things from
Twenty-five cents things from independence.
I bet you put your own theory in the one that went in June, though, huh?
One thing I'm quite confident is the story with no way.
No way.
I mean, we all know what happened.
This is 1815 to the present for our collection.
The Clements is...
These are over... This is my upcoming duplicate sale.
Duplicate auction periodically whenever I get around so I can personally make sure the catalog is in good shape.
Now, J.T.
Brown just doubled their space.
You guys can't do that.
We got a double of space sometime, too.
Where would you go?
Down?
Underground.
Underground, under the front.
I suppose like the law school did over there.
Yeah.
You know, one of the problems—oh, I'm sorry.
One of the problems is that—I guess I'm like Howard.
When I got a buck, I want to buy a book.
I don't want to put up another building.
Now, Howard who?
Howard Beckham.
Okay, I'm sorry.
Okay.
Little repair area, work, lighting, and conservation work.
Excuse me.
I'm sorry.
Well, we're going to get you a couple of publications on the way towards the map.
This is great, by the way.
Yeah.
Newspapers.
Do you replicate a lot of AAS stuff, or is it this?
You know what?
When Clemens established this, he bought all the duplicate newspapers of the Antiquarian Society.
Yes, in that case, of course, there's a lot of replication.
But you know, a lot of libraries have gotten rid of the old newspapers, but the readers hate microfilms.
I do, too.
So they're used, and I'm not going to get rid of them.
Good for you.
Because I love them.
Every time I think about them, I think about getting rid of them, I start to read them, and I get nuts.
Okay, I want to find you a copy of Mr. Clement's biography.
Get them pretty well covered.
All right, look.
I'm going to give you one of these.
This is Mr. Clement's own book describing his library.
Gee.
And... I can't find this, you know, by the way.
I've looked in libraries.
This is a tough one.
Look, there's one that's signed by Randolph Adams.
It's presented.
You can have this copy.
And... Did you sign it, too?
Uh, sure.
And... And it was... He needed to get... Winship really sort of helped ghostwriting.
Understood, isn't it?
But, uh, then... I'll give you the dedication.
Dedication?
Oh, boy.
One thing about the directors...
I'd say at this library, the directors have always been active historical scholars as well.
So combining your collecting with perhaps a little teaching and writing books is a full-time occupation.
I think we've covered it a little.
Do you get the Bloomsbury auction catalogs?
No, I don't.
They're equivalent to Swan in London.
Well, one of these Irish country houses.
You know, books that haven't been touched since 1810.
Unbelievable bargains.
This, one of these British magazines, and got not only a pristine set of the magazine, but then they had bound up the separate plates, kind of for salt.
That's one of those kind of deals.
What did you say when it was hopeless?
What's hopeless?
What do you mean, it's hopeless?
You mean this place?
Well, I didn't have my machine on when you said that.
You said, ah, it's hopeless.
What did you mean when you said that?
This book, I like that.
It's crazy.
Seriously, I thought it was great and it was cool with it.
You can't believe it's a tragedy.
What do you call this room?
Well, it's the Atlas story.
Mm-hmm.
But it's wonderful for us.
We were able to give them the time to see.
Here's the first Atlas.
This is the Hall of May Atlas.
Fourteen.
Oh, we just pulled it up.
May I?
Fourteen, eighty, uh.
Bramley-Martin works for a million and a half.
You know that.
Yeah.
Well, this is as fine as Bramley's.
I'm feeling I'm touching it right now.
I'm touching it.
Oh, this is.
Oh, my God.
Well, this is it.
It's brand new.
Let me find the, uh, here's the world map.
Original coloring.
Oh, yeah.
Let me just get that again.
Oh, this is probably the picture, you know?
It's probably... And I just want to look at it.
Okay.
You know, we've got these cans.
In 1923, he and the university bought the entire collection of a French, New Orleans-born French Confederate, I mean, New Orleans-born Confederate, who then moved to Paris.
died there.
His name was Henry Vigneault, V-I-G-N-A-U-D.
Vigneault was a great collector on exploration.
He was a scholar on Columbus, on Vespucci, and he had a collection of over 60,000 titles.
Jeez.
Clements and the university together bought the whole collection and included in one shot Clements got it.
all of the key editions of Ptolemy, Mercator, Blau, and Ortelius, which we could barely afford for that.
But the mine collection is just a bagel.
This is just a small room.
I would say this room is probably 15 by 15, if it's bad, you know, maybe 20 by 20.
They're only the Library of Congress.
the American Geographical Society, the Newberry, the Huntington, and, let's say, John Carter Brown have a fair percentage of what's here, and we have many that are unique, they have others that are unique, but it's in that league.
We have a portal on chart that I got problems.
This came from a French dealer, and it had been captured, I'm sure, by a British admiral in the 1740s, in perfect condition.
And we bought this in honor of one of the chairman of our associates.
This is very exciting for me.
We're always out there.
So they tell you, I've been collecting libraries.
Don't forget that stuff.
Now, let me get... You going to leave that door open?
Yeah, it was, I'm sure.
So is this door, John?
Okay, it's closed.